= paperclip-dimension

This gem is the improved version of `mongoid_paperclip_image_dimension` that is ORM agnostic.
If you are using `mongoid_paperclip_image_dimension`, you should upgrade to this gem.

This is a simple gem to persist image dimensions of originals and thumbnails.
It works for both s3 and filesystem storages.
This lib is based on this article:

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4065295/paperclip-saving-the-images-dimentions-width-height

== Setup

You can simply install from rubygems:

  gem install paperclip-dimension
  require 'paperclip-dimension'

or in Gemfile:

  gem 'paperclip-dimension'

=== General Setup

You need to make sure the following is in place:

# `Paperclip::Glue` is included in your model.
# `<attachment>_dimensions` attribute is requried to operate.

=== Rails & ActiveRecord Migration

`paperclip` gives you the ability to create migrations with `has_attached_file`.
For example:

  class CreatePosts < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def up
      create_table :posts do |t|
        t.has_attached_file :image
      end
    end
  end

This creates the following columns:

* image_file_name
* image_file_size
* image_content_type
* image_updated_at

`paperclip-dimension` will create an extra field for you: `image_dimensions` when the above migration is run.

=== Mongoid

Exmaple Mongoid setup:

  class Post
    include Mongoid::Document
    include Paperclip::Glue

    # The usual paperclip fields
    field :image_file_name,     :type => String
    field :image_file_size,     :type => Integer
    field :image_content_type,  :type => String
    field :image_updated_at,    :type => Time

    # The extra paperclip-dimension field
    field :image_dimensions,    :type => Hash

    # call #has_attached_file like usual
    has_attached_file :image, :styles => {
      :large    =>    ['350x350>',     :jpg],
      :medium   =>    ['150x150>',     :jpg],
      :small    =>    ['30x30>',       :jpg]
    }
  end

== Usage

This gem gives your model a few extra helpers:

  # suppose we used the example from above
  p = Post.first

  # retrieve image dimensions for all sytles
  p.image_dimensions    #   {
                        #     'original' => [2048, 1024],
                        #     'large'    => [350, 175],
                        #     'medium'   => [150, 75],
                        #     'small'    => [30, 15]
                        #   }

  # get image dimension as an array
  p.image_dimension               # [2048, 1024]
  p.image_dimension(:original)    # [2048, 1024]
  p.image_dimension(:large)       # [350, 175]

  # get it now as a string
  p.image_dimension_str             # "2048x1024"
  p.image_dimension_str(:original)  # "2048x1024"
  p.image_dimension_str(:large)     # "350x175"

== Contributing to paperclip-dimension

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Aaron Qian. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

